[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: ECMAScript 5,
The New Parts.
So complete implementations of
the fifth edition are now in all
the best web browsers, and also in IE10.
So, it's almost everywhere.
So again,
to review the history of the standards,
the third edition was
ratified in December 1999.
Work on the fourth editions
started almost a year before that.
The fourth edition was attempting
to solve some problems that I think
were unnecessary.
And eventually, it got so big and so
complicated that it was not completable.
That project slipped a year per year for
ten years.
So it was eventually abandoned and
instead,
we did the fifth Edition which
started with a working title ES3.1,
indicating that it was going to be a much
less ambitious attempt at adding goodness
to the third edition and it adds two
languages or describes two languages.
The default language and
the strict language.
And of the two, I recommend not using
the default language, but using the strict
language exclusively and we'll talk later
about what's in the strict language.
So, that the goal of the ECMAScript 5
project was to make a better JavaScript.
There are a lot of people who wanted
us to not make a better JavaScript, but
to make a different language and
there's certainly good arguments for
doing that, but I think standardization is
not the correct place to try to do that.
So instead of trying to do a big thing,
we tried to do a lot of little things.
We tried to make the standard
conform better to reality.
There are some cases
where the standard said,
implementations must do this and
none of the implementations did that.
So we said, okay, well,
the standards obviously wrong.
We should make the standard conform
to what people actually do.
We should try to make the browsers
conform better to each other.
There are cases where three browser
makers would do things one way and
Microsoft would do things another way.
Microsoft very generously agreed to
do what everybody else was doing,
that was a very nice thing.
In cases where all of
the browsers disagreed,
where every browser did
something different,
we took that as license to fix
something deep in the standard.
That we assume that the web doesn't care,
if every browser does something different.
In that case, we can go in and
do deeper changes.
As a result of all of this work,
interoperability is improved.
JavaScript was already very good
at write once run everywhere.
With ES5, it gets even better.
So our number one goal for ES5 was
don't break the web and that's a really
difficult goal to keep, because any time
you change anything, something will break.
And we did break some stuff with ES5,
but we tried really hard not to.
Now you could argue as I did,
there is a lot of stuff out there,
which deserves to break, but
we tried not to break even that stuff.
We wanted to improve the language for
the users of the language.
Most of the critics of JavaScript
are people who do not use the language and
would not use it even if we did
everything they told us to.
So we tried not to listen to them
too much, not always successfully.
We tried instead to listen to you.
We paid a lot of attention to
third party security or mash ups.
We want to make it possible for you to
add someone else's code to your page and
have it not violate your security or
your customer's security.
We decided not to try to protect
stupid people from themselves,
because that is just too hard.
So we, in fact, added new ways that stupid
people can do outrageously stupid things
and we'll get to that little bit later.
And we decided to have no new syntax and
the reason for that is
that at the time that we were doing this
work, IE6 was still the dominant browser.
And our concern was that if we launched
a new version of the language and
if IE6 is still dominant,
then if the value of that new language
depended on syntax and it's going to fail,
because every new feature means total
failure and that's not helping you at all.
So, we tried to add as much value to
the language as we could without changing
the syntax of the language.
Hoping that eventually we
would solve the IE problem and
then later editions of the language
would be able to be freer with syntax.